*************************
Synology NAS Hyper Backup
*************************

Synology NAS systems that support the Hyper Backup package can use
our object storage service for full backups of your NAS, including
system settings and application data.

Hyper Backup will create archives on our object storage service, and
therefore you can only access the content of a backup using the
Hyper Backup application on your NAS. If you need direct access to
copies of files, the Synology Cloud Sync (described below) may be
a better option.

Setup
=====

After installing the "Hyper Backup" package from the Synology Package
Center, the following steps are needed to enable backups of your NAS
to our object storage service:

#. Open "Hyper Backup" from the applications menu (top left button of
   the main NAS page)
#. Click the "+" button in the top left of the Hyper Backup window.
#. Select which type of backup you want, either are supported.
#. For Data backups:

   #. Select "OpenStack Swift" from the list of backup destinations and
      click "Next"
   #. On the next page:

      #. For "Identity Service endpoint", select an identity API URL from :ref:`apis`
      #. For "Identity Service version", select "3.0" from the drop-down
      #. Enter your Catalyst Cloud username and password in the
         appropriate boxes
      #. For "Tenant/Project" choose "id" from the drop-down, and then
         enter the project ID where objects will be stored. You can find
         the project ID from the Catalyst Cloud dashboard under Identity
         and then Projects.
      #. For "Domain", choose "id" from the drop-down and enter
         "default"
      #. You should now be able to select a Catalyst Cloud region from
         the "Location" drop down.
      #. You can select an existing object container from the
         "Container" drop-down, or create a new one in the same
         drop-down
      #. "Directory" can be left as the default generated by the NAS.
      #. Click Next

   #. Select the volumes you wish to back up, and click "Next"
   #. Select the Synology applications you want backed up, and click
      "Next"
   #. Lastly, you can give the backup job a name, and set the
      backup schedule. Then click "Next"
   #. The next page will allow you set a backup rotation. Click
      "Done" when complete.
   #. You will be promoted if you want to perform a backup now.

Using single-region object containers
=====================================

By default, containers created by your Synology NAS in the above
process will use our multi-region replication mode. This is generally
recommended for backups.

However, if you would prefer single-region object storage, you will
need to create the object container in our dashboard first using this
policy, and then select that container in the process above rather than
creating a new container.

Note: please select the same region you created the object container
in when selecting the location in the steps above.

Restoring backups
=================

Hyper Backup includes a "Backup Explorer" that can restore files and
settings from backups you have in our object storage service.

Consult the Synology documentation for more information on how to
restore backups.

***********************
Synology NAS Cloud Sync
***********************

Synology NAS systems that support the Cloud Sync package can use our
object storage service for backups or two-way syncing of your NAS.

This can be used for backups as an alternative to the Hyper Backup
service described above, with the following differences:

* Cloud Sync preserves files as they are on your NAS in the object
  storage service, so can be used by other clients or directly accessed
  from the Catalyst Cloud dashboard
* As Cloud Sync will sync files only, you cannot use it to backup a
  LUN, system settings, or application data from packages installed on
  your NAS.
* Cloud Sync allows two-way synchronisation, that is writes and updates
  directly to the object storage service can be downloaded to your NAS
  automatically
* When using Cloud Sync as a backup, restoring files is more
  complicated and not provided directly in the Synology NAS UI.
* Cloud Sync can be configured to limit the use of bandwidth while
  syncing, while Hyper Backup will not limit bandwidith usage.
* Cloud Sync will not maintain a history of versions itself, the sync
  is current data only.

Setup
=====

After installing the "Cloud Sync" package from the Synology Package
Center, the following steps are needed to add a backup or sync to
our object storage service:

#. From the applications menu (top left) open Cloud Sync
#. Press the "+" button in the top left of the Cloud Sync pane to add
   a new target.
#. In the list of Cloud Providers, select "OpenStack Swift" and click
   "Next".
#. Enter the following details:

   #. For "Identity Service endpoint", select an identity API URL from :ref:`apis`
   #. For "Identity Service version", select "3.0" from the drop-down
   #. Enter your cloud username and password in "Username" and "Password"
   #. For "Tenant/Project" choose "id" from the drop-down, and then
      enter the project ID where objects will be stored. You can find
      the project ID from the Catalyst Cloud dashboard under Identity
      and then Projects.
   #. For "Domain", choose "id" from the drop-down and enter "default"
   #. Click "Next"

#. If your credentials are correct, you will be asked now for a
   location and container name. "Location" chooses which cloud region
   the objects will be stored in. "Container Name" allows you to
   select an existing object storage container, or create a new one.
   You'll need to enter both of these values before hitting "Next"
#. In the next page, the settings provided are:

   #. "Connection name" is a name you'll see for this backup on your
      NAS.
   #. "Local Path" is the directory on your NAS you want backed up.
   #. "Remote Path" can set left as "Root folder". We do not recommend
      sending multiple backups in different folders to the same
      object container.
   #. "Sync direction" can be any of the settings. For a backup, we
      recommend "Upload changes only"
   #. "Part size" must be a minimum of 128MB, however we support any
      size up to 5GB.
   #. For backups, we recommend ticking the option "Don't remove files
      in the destination folder when they are removed in the source
      folder", this means that you can restore deleted files from
      your NAS by copying them from the object storage service.
   #. For other options, please consult Synology DSM documentation.
   #. Note: enabling data encryption may prevent restoring individual
      files.

#. Once clicking Next, you'll be able to confirm the settings and
   enable the sync.


Using single-region object containers
=====================================

By default, containers created by your Synology NAS in the above
process will use our multi-region replication mode. This is generally
recommended for backups.

However, if you would prefer single-region object storage, you will
need to create the object container in our dashboard first using this
policy, and then select that container in the process above rather than
creating a new container.

Note: please select the same region you created the object container
in when selecting the location in the steps above.

Restoring deleted files
=======================

The Synology NAS has no built-in interface to restore files, however
this can be done by downloading the deleted files from the Catalyst
Cloud dashboard. You can browse and download files stored directly
from the dashboard.

Note: If you have enabled "Data Encryption", you will not be able
to restore files with this method.
