################
19 February 2024
################

Major upgrade to the identity (Keystone) service.

=======================
Application Credentials
=======================

The upgrade adds Application Credentials to the identity service.  The new feature
allows customers to create secrets to allow applications to authentication
against Catalyst Cloud with a subset of roles and an optional expiry time.

For more details see :doc:`/identity-access-management/application-credentials`

===========================
Identity v2 API Deprecation
===========================

The identity v2 API has been removed beginning from the date of this release.
Only the v3 API is available after this date.

Customers using an :ref:`openrc file <source-rc-file>` should download the
latest version from the dashboard.

Client applications currently configured to use the v2 API will need to be
reconfigured to authenticate with Catalyst Cloud as follows:

1.  Remove ``/v2.0`` from any authentication URLs.

    * For example ``https://api.nz-por-1.catalystcloud.io:5000/v2.0`` should be
      changed to ``https://api.nz-por-1.catalystcloud.io:5000/``.

2.  When providing a user name or project name when authenticating then the user
    domain and project domain must also be provided:

    * User domain name: ``Default``.
    * User domain ID: ``default``.

    Note that when using the user ID and project ID for authenticating then the
    domain is not required.

3.  Confirm that client applications are authenticating against the Identity V3
    API.

    If it is possible to inspect HTTP requests made from the application then
    the application should be seen to be requesting an auth token from the v3
    endpoint, e.g. ``https://api.nz-por-1.catalystcloud.io:5000/auth/tokens``.

More information on using the identity v3 API can be found in the `Keystone
documentation <https://docs.openstack.org/api-ref/identity/v3/#password-authentication-with-scoped-authorization>`_.

Customers requiring assistance in migrating to the v3 API, or who are wishing to
confirm their account is no longer using the v2 API should raise a support
ticket via the dashboard.
