################
26 February 2024
################

Major upgrade to the Compute (Nova) service. Most of the changes are internal
however there are some public-facing changes as described below.

==========================
Compute API Version Change
==========================

The compute v2 API has changed from v2 to v2.1 which changes the API URL path
from `/v2` to `/v2.1`. So for example the compute v2 API for the Porirua
region has now changed to https://api.nz-por-1.catalystcloud.io:8774/v2.1.
The updated API URLs can be found on the `API page of the dashboard
<https://dashboard.catalystcloud.nz/project/api_access/>`_.

Most client applications should obtain the correct URL automatically from the
service catalogue and therefore not require additional configuration. If any
customers have specifically configured any applications or scripts to use the
v2 API then they should be updated to use the v2.1 API instead.

The v2.1 API is required for some of the new compute features and will enable
additional features in future. It also retains full backwards-compatibility
with the old v2 API, so older software that only supports API v2 can be
configured to use the v2.1 API without loss of functionality.

Note that the v2.1 API supports a number of new features that are dependent on
the specific microversion of the API. The highest supported API microversion
after this upgrade is 2.42. Requests for features that are newer than this
microversion may result in an error being returned instead of the desired
action being performed. This may occur with existing scripts, configurations
and tools (e.g. Terraform/OpenTofu) if such features are requests that were
previously silently ignored when interfacing with the v2 API. If this occurs
after the upgrade, check your instance deployment scripts for any such features
in the first instance.

An example of a feature included in Terraform (and derivative products) is
specifying the volume type at instance creation. This is not supported in the
2.42 compute API so will return an error. To avoid this, please ensure that
`openstack_compute_volume_attach_v2` resources do not use the `volume_type`
argument.

====
Tags
====

-------------
Instance tags
-------------

Simple string tags can now be added to servers to assist with filtering and
sorting. There is also now support for virtual device role tagging.

-----------
Device tags
-----------

Device role tagging can assist with identifying which device is which inside
the guest instance. When booting an instance, an optional arbitrary tag
parameter can be set on virtual network interfaces and/or block device
mappings. This tag is exposed to the instance through the metadata API. Each
tagged virtual network interface is listed along with information about the
virtual hardware, such as bus type (e.g. PCI), bus address (e.g. 0000:00:02.0)
and MAC address. For tagged block devices, the exposed hardware metadata
includes the bus (e.g. SCSI), bus address (e.g. 1:0:2:0) and serial number.

The metadata service contains a corresponding devices section which lists any
devices that are tagged as described in the previous paragraph, along with
their hardware metadata.

===================================
API Microversion Header consistency
===================================

Microversions may now (since microversion 2.27) be requested with the
``OpenStack-API-Version: compute 2.27`` header, in alignment with
OpenStack-wide standards. The original format,
``X-OpenStack-Nova-API-Version: 2.27``, may still be used.

===================
Deprecation Notices
===================

--------------
Compute API v2
--------------

The compute v2 API endpoint is being replaced by the v2.1 API endpoint. Refer
to details earlier in this page for more information.

-------------------
EC2 API Deprecation
-------------------

The EC2-compatible compute API provides an S3-like compute API service. There
has not been any usage activity logged on this API for some time so it is now
deprecated and will be retired after 31 March 2024.

This does not affect the :ref:`S3 object storage API <s3-api-documentation>`
or the ability to manage EC2 credentials; these features will continue to
function as normal.
