############
25 May 2020
############

The main changes of note in this release are:

* Upgrade of the Kubernetes Service (Magnum) from stable/Queens to
  stable/Train.
* Predefined `storage classes`_ were added to the Kubernetes service.
* Provide user friendly names for object storage policies in the dashboard.

.. _`storage classes`: https://docs.catalystcloud.nz/kubernetes/storage.html#storage-classes

***************************
Kubernetes service (Magnum)
***************************

For a full list of the included changes please see upstream release
notes for `stable/Stein`_ and `stable/Train`_

.. _`stable/Stein`: https://docs.openstack.org/releasenotes/magnum/stein.html
.. _`stable/Train`: https://docs.openstack.org/releasenotes/magnum/train.html

New features
============

* Support for Kubernetes v1.16.x and above will be added and there will be new
  cluster templates published reflecting this change.
* The base operating system of nodes will be `Fedora CoreOS`_ since Fedora
  Atomic has been made end-of-life.
* `Podman`_ will to used to manage the kubernetes components
  instead of using the default atomic system container.
* The addons within the cluster that are provided by the Catalyst Cloud
  templates, will also upgraded to latest stable version available at the time
  of release.

  - `Calico`_ 3.13.1
  - `CoreDNS`_ 1.6.6
  - `Kubernetes Web UI (dashboard)`_ 2.0.0
  - `Prometheus`_ v2.13.1
  - `Grafana`_ 6.4.2

.. _`Fedora CoreOS`: https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/fedora-coreos/getting-started/
.. _Podman: https://podman.io/
.. _Calico: https://docs.tigera.io/calico/latest/getting-started/kubernetes/
.. _CoreDNS: https://coredns.io/
.. _`Kubernetes Web UI (dashboard)`: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/web-ui-dashboard/
.. _Prometheus: https://prometheus.io/
.. _Grafana: https://grafana.com/

* All addons related to Cloud Provider Openstack will be also upgraded to latest
  stable version, the main ones of note being:

  - `Keystone Webhook Authentication Authorization`_ v1.18.0
  - `Octavia ingress controller`_ v1.18.0
  - `Magnum auto healer`_ v1.18.0

.. _`Keystone Webhook Authentication Authorization`: https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack/blob/master/docs/keystone-auth/using-keystone-webhook-authenticator-and-authorizer.md
.. _`Octavia ingress controller`: https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack/blob/master/docs/octavia-ingress-controller/using-octavia-ingress-controller.md
.. _`Magnum auto healer`: https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack/blob/master/docs/magnum-auto-healer/using-magnum-auto-healer.md


Known limitations
=================

Existing kubernetes clusters on version v1.15.x or earlier will not be able to
upgrade to v1.16.x. This is due to the changes and dependencies imposed by
moving to a new operating system for the cluster nodes.






