#################
29 August 2022
#################

Minor upgrade to the Dashboard and to the Kubernetes service.

*******************
Dashboard (Horizon)
*******************

Bug fixes
=========

With this upgrade we have been able to resolve a number of bugs that our
dashboard had been experiencing. These bugs include:

- An error with the usage graph on the dashboard. You should
  now be able to see your current usage and costs using the graph without an
  issue.
- An error message that displayed when making changes to instances using
  the dashboard. Error messages relating to microversion checks on
  auto_allocated_networks should now provide more precise information

Ease of use changes
===================

Also included in this patch was a change to how we display images that are
available from the dashboard. When selecting an image for an instance you
should now see a more optimally filtered list of images to choose from,
prioritizing images that are still maintained and up to date.

************************
Container Infra (Magnum)
************************

New template types available
============================

We have numerous updates to our Kubernetes service including new revisions of
templates for existing K8s releases. K8s releases 1.19, 1.20, and 1.21 are
affected. Fedora CoreOS is upgraded in the template changes to address various
CVEs.

Additionally, K8s 1.22 clusters will soon be available! However, migrating
existing clusters to this new version type will require some manual help from
our engineering team. Once this template is available, if you wish to upgrade,
please create a support ticket to let us know.

***********************
Miscellaneous
***********************

Change to sign up credit
========================

We have reduced the length that the initial sign up credit is valid for on
our cloud. It has been reduced from 1 year (365 days) to 3 months (90 days).
