#############
21 April 2026
#############

==================================
Catalyst Cloud Kubernetes Service
==================================

----------------------
v1.35 Cluster Template
----------------------

Cluster Templates for Kubernetes v1.35 are now available.

The :ref:`supported-kubernetes-versions` section of our documentation has more information about
this release and projected supported dates of all version releases.

To get started using our CNCF Certified Kubernetes service, follow the
:ref:`Kubernetes Quick-Start Guide<k8s-quickstart>`.

-----------
API Service
-----------

We have released an update for the API service of CCKS with two notable fixes:

* The ``boot_volume_size`` :ref:`cluster label <k8s-cluster-labels>` now correctly applies
  numerical values. There was a regression in previous versions.
* Attempting to create or delete a cluster while authenticated using an application credenital
  will now correctly report an error instead of becoming stuck in a ``CREATE_IN_PROGRESS`` or
  ``DELETE_IN_PROGRESS`` state.

===================
Deprecation Notices
===================

--------------------
Kubernetes Dashboard
--------------------

Automated installation of the Kubernetes Dashboard via the Catalyst Cloud Dashboard or the
``kube_dashboard_enabled`` :ref:`cluster label <k8s-cluster-labels>` is now deprecated in v1.33 and
v1.34. Support is removed in v1.35.

Customers are encouraged to consider `Headlamp`_ as an alternative solution. Refer to
:doc:`../tutorials/kubernetes/headlamp` for instructions on how to install Headlamp on CCKS.

.. _`Headlamp`: https://headlamp.dev

------------------------
Magnum Cluster Templates
------------------------

With the release of v1.35 for Catalyst Cloud Kubernetes Service, clusters running v1.32 have
transitioned to unsupported. These templates are now hidden from the Dashboard.

Building clusters with a hidden cluster template remains possible through the CLI and API. This
supports the case where you need an identical version of an older cluster created.

See :ref:`supported-kubernetes-versions` for more information on how to upgrade your v1.32
clusters.
