#################
28 September 2022
#################

The changes for this release include an upgrade to both the Keystone
(Authentication) and Swift (object storage) services. Also included is a minor
change to rate limiting as well as Neutron being added to the Audit log
service.

*********************************
Authentication upgrade (Keystone)
*********************************

With the upgrade to the keystone service completed we are now focusing on
implementing new features that have become available with the new version of
Keystone. The first of which is that the records for user authentication are
now encrypted at rest. Meaning should a malicious actor gain access to the
authentication records they would be unreadable.

Other new features will be brought through as we are able to implement them and
these will be detailed in future release notes.

******************************
Object storage upgrade (Swift)
******************************

With this upgrade to the swift service, several bugs that were present in
previous versions have been fixed. Namely, an edge case S3 signature
computation mis-match was fixed and should no longer cause problems with s3
integration. Another fix was made to how segmented data is governed by a
containers policy; it should now be consistent across all segmented pieces of
data.

***************************
Neutron added to audit logs
***************************

This release sees the addition of Neutron (Network) data beinig included in the
audit log service. This means that the logs for your networking resources can
also be managed using the audit log service that we provide.

*********************
Change to rate limits
*********************

Finally, we have made a change to the rate limits that we have on the
cloud. This release we have doubled the maximum API rate limit.

