###############
24 October 2025
###############

******************************
Catalyst Cloud Metrics Service
******************************

We have launched the new Catalyst Cloud Metrics Service, in open beta.

The Metrics Service increases the observability of your resources running in
the cloud by exposing a number of useful metrics. With its comprehensive
query API you can monitor your cloud resources, and get time-series data
suitable for making dashboards.

Along with metrics, a history of the state of resources is also kept
for up to 90 days (with decreasing granularity), allowing a look into
historical data in addition to monitoring the current state of resources.

The Metrics Service is free to use for all Catalyst Cloud customers.
To find out more, see :ref:`Catalyst Cloud Metrics Service <metrics>`.

******
Alarms
******

The Catalyst Cloud Alarm Service now uses the Metrics Service as
the source for resource metrics. Threshold alarms monitoring resource
metrics can be created using the ``gnocchi_resources_threshold`` and
``gnocchi_aggregation_by_resources_threshold`` alarm types.

For more information, see the documentation for the :ref:`Catalyst Cloud Alarm Service <alarm>`.

*************
Orchestration
*************

When configuring auto-scaling with the :ref:`Catalyst Cloud Orchestration Service <orchestration>`,
alarms are now configured using one of the types backed by the Metrics Service listed above.

For more information, see the documentation for
:ref:`auto-scaling with the Catalyst Cloud Orchestration Service <autoscaling-on-catalyst-cloud>`.

.. note::

  These changes do not apply to :ref:`Catalyst Cloud Kubernetes Service (CCKS) <kubernetes>`
  clusters running Kubernetes v1.28 and later, as newer clusters use a different mechanism
  for auto-scaling.

  If you have any CCKS clusters running Kubernetes v1.27 or earlier,
  please consider :ref:`rebuilding your cluster <cluster-upgrade>`
  to upgrade to the latest version of Kubernetes and ensure
  your workloads continue working correctly.
