#############
7 April 2025
#############

This release contains two major upgrades with a number of useful new features
and capabilities. The details of these are described below.

=====================
Block storage upgrade
=====================

The block storage backend (Cinder) is being upgraded. With this update
the V1 API for the block storage service will no longer be available. Additionally
we would like to reiterate that the V2 API has been deprecated for some time and
will no longer be available after the 1st of June 2025. You can read more on this
in the notice here: :ref:`deprecation_of_v2_block`.

In addition, the following public-facing changes will occur:

* The block storage v3 API microversion changes from 3.27 to 3.59.
* Volumes can now be resized online (while attached to instances).
* Improved sorting and filtering of results returned by the API.

Requests for features that are newer than v3.59 may result in an
error being returned instead of the desired action being performed.

=======================
Compute service upgrade
=======================

The compute service (Nova) is being upgraded. Most of the changes are internal
however there are some public-facing changes as described below.

The compute v2.1 API has been upgraded from microversion v2.60 to v2.79. This
introduces a number of useful changes:

* Ed25519 SSH keys are supported.
* Volume type (e.g. NVMe) can be specified directly when creating a server.
* Servers that are members of server groups include their group memberships
  when retrieving server details.
* The ``delete_on_termination`` option can be set when attaching volumes to
  servers, and the state of this option is provided by the API when viewing
  server volume attachments.
* A reason can be added when locking a server.

Requests for features that are newer than v2.79 may result in an
error being returned instead of the desired action being performed.
