################
02 December 2025
################

=====================================
Upgrade to the Object Storage Service
=====================================

This release upgrades the Object Storage service. Note this release includes
some deprecations.

Changes to the Object Storage Service
-------------------------------------

- The object expirer has been enabled. Objects created on the object server
  with ``X-Delete-At`` or ``X-Delete-After`` headers will be deleted on or
  after the specified date or number of seconds has elapsed. For more details
  see :ref:`object-expiry`.

- s3api: CompleteMultipartUpload requests may now be safely retried.

- s3api: Container ACLs are now cloned to the +segments container when it is
  created.

- Prefix-based tempurls may now be used to explore staticweb listings within
  that prefix. Note that this opens a new ability to list containers from
  tempurls, but only if staticweb’s ``X-Container-Meta-Web-Listings`` is
  enabled.

- s3api: Add basic read support for S3 object locking. This improves
  compatibility with an Ansible S3 module. Write support is not yet
  implemented, so get-object-lock-configuration will always 404.

- The static large object (SLO) middleware now supports including a
  ``?part-number=`` query parameter to request just part of a large object.
  This may be used to enable efficient parallel downloads. For more
  information, see the upstream documentation.

- s3api: Now supports the ?partNumber= query parameter, enabling parallel
  downloads.

- s3api: Added support for aws-chunked transfers. AWS clients recently
  began defaulting to this mode.

- Account listings now include storage policy information for the containers
  listed.


Deprecations and Removals
-------------------------

These items have been deprecated by upstream, therefore we can't provide a
date when these will take effect.

- SHA-1 signatures are now deprecated for the formpost and tempurl. We will
  ensure these keep working until the end of May 2026, after which they will
  be disabled during the next major upgrade.
